# Hardware Aware Scientifc Computing (HASC) - Exercise 03
Manuel Trageser  
Justin Sostmann  

## Exercise 1 *Parallel Implementation of the Astrophysical N-body Problem*

### 1)
Done

### 2)

-

### 3)
Check the [plot.ipynb](plot.ipynb) notebook for the plots.

### 4)
Check the performance plots in the [plot.ipynb](plot.ipynb) notebook.

### 5)
Check the [plot.ipynb](plot.ipynb) notebook for the plots.
And [nbody.cc](nbody.cc) for the code of the AoS vectorized version and [nbody2.cc](nbody2.cc) for the SoA vectorized version.

We played around with various ideas and implementations for the AoS version, but did not achieve any significant speedup compared the the provided ``nbody_avx.cc``.  
Our final version of the AoS version can be found in [nbody.cc](nbody.cc). The idea was to use a *global* block of 4 ``Vec4d``s that interact in the inner loop with 2 particles at a time. As the outer loop loads 4 particles at a time, which are ``2(pos and acc)*4(x,y,z, pad)*4*8bytes = 256bytes`` we can load all 4 outer particles in 2 cache lines which should be one load operation.  
-> This version is obviously slower than the provided ``nbody_avx.cc``, as we did not actually use effective blocking.

As a fallback implementation we tried to improve the provided ``nbody_intel_SoA.cc`` by using the hint on the exercise sheet.  
-> This sadly still did not improve the performance. It actually performed worse than the original code.


  <script type="text/javascript" src="http://cdn.mathjax.org/mathjax/latest/MathJax.js?config=TeX-AMS-MML_HTMLorMML"></script>
  <script type="text/x-mathjax-config">
      MathJax.Hub.Config({ tex2jax: {inlineMath: [['$', '$']]}, messageStyle: "none" });
  </script>